# Untitled

Concealment: The first is concealment. A character hiding behind a clump of bushes is concealed. He can be seen, but only with difficulty, and it's no easy task to determine exactly where he is. The bushes cannot stop an arrow, but they do make it less likely that the character is hit. Other types of concealment include curtains, tapestries, smoke, fog, dimly lit rooms, and brambles.

Cover: The other type of protection is cover. It is, as its name implies, something a character can hide behind that will block a missile. Cover can be provided by stone walls, the corner of a building, tables, doors, earth embankments, tree trunks, and magical walls of force.

в старых редакциях они давали похожие но все таки разные бонусы • A target has light concealment when in a dimly lit room or when lightly obscured by fog, smoke, or foliage. • A target has heavy concealment if in an area of heavy fog or smoke, or heavily obscured by foliage. • A target has total concealment when in a completely dark area or when its attacker cannot see it \(i.e. when the attacker is blinded or the defender is invisible\). See Blinded Combatants and Unseen Combatants on the following page for more information. • A target has light cover when an obstacle blocks at least half of its body. The obstacle might be a low wall, a large piece of furniture, a narrow tree trunk, or a creature, whether that creature is an enemy or a friend. • A target has heavy cover if about three-quarters of it is covered by an obstacle. The obstacle might be a portcullis, an arrow slit, or a thick tree trunk. A target with heavy cover gains a +2 bonus to Dexterity Saving Throws. • A target has total cover if it is completely blocked by an obstacle. A target with total cover can't be targeted directly by an attack or a spell, although some spells can reach such a target by including it in an area of effect. A target with total cover gains a +4 bonus to Dexterity Saving Throws. Cover or concealment helps a potential target by providing a bonus to the target's Armor Class. The AC bonus for concealment or cover depends on the degree to which it is being used as shelter. The different modifiers for varying degrees of cover and concealment are shown below. Cover and Concealment Bonuses Level of: Concealment Cover Light +1 to Armor Class +2 to Armor Class Heavy +2 to Armor Class +4 to Armor Class, +2 to DEX saves Total +4 to Armor Class Can't be directly targeted, +4 to DEX saves

